debezium/dbz#1569 Add a blogpost for platform support for connection (#1215)
debezium/debezium.github.io: _posts/2026-01-22-Debezium-platform-connection.adoc

---
layout: post
title:  "Introducing reusable Connections in the Debezium Platform"
date:   2026-01-22
tags: [ UI, debezium-platform, integration, debezium operator, debezium, debezium-server ]
author: indrashukla
---

> Since introducing the Debezium Management Platform (Debezium Platform), our goal has been to simplify how you build and manage CDC data pipelines—so you can focus on how your data flows, rather than repeatedly configuring the same infrastructure details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Debezium Platform aims to simplify the building and management of CDC data pipelines by streamlining infrastructure setup.
```

> Earlier, connection-related properties (such as hostnames, ports, credentials, or authentication details) were defined directly as part of the Source or Destination configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Earlier, connection-related properties (such as hostnames, ports, credentials, and authentication details) were defined directly in the Source or Destination configuration.
```

> While this worked, it often led to duplication, harder maintenance of the same connection details across multiple instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this worked, it often led to duplication and harder maintenance of the same connection details across multiple instances.
```

> To address this, we are introducing **Connections** as a first-class entity in the Debezium Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this, we are introducing **Connections** as a first-class citizen in the Debezium Platform, making it easier for you to manage connection details in one place and avoid repetitive setup.
```

> Connections allow you to define, validate, and reuse connection details independently, and then reference them from any number of Sources and Destinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connections allow you to define, validate, and reuse connection details independently, reducing configuration errors and saving time by referencing them in multiple Sources and Destinations.
```

== What are Connections?

> A *Connection* represents the configuration required to connect to an external system, such as a source database or a sink endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *Connection* specifies the configuration required to connect to an external system, like a source database or a sink endpoint.
```

Instead of embedding these details inside each Source or Destination:

* You create a Connection once
* Validate it independently
* Reuse it across multiple Sources and Destinations

This makes pipelines easier to manage, safer to modify, and faster to set up.

== Why introduce Connections?

Separating connection details from Source and Destination configurations provides several benefits:

**Reusability**::
A single Connection can be reused across multiple Sources or Destinations.

**Centralized management**::
Update credentials or connection parameters in one place without editing every pipeline.

**Early validation**::
Validate a Connection before it is ever used by a Source or Destination.

**Cleaner configurations**::

> Source and Destination definitions focus only on CDC and data flow logic, not infrastructure details.

Reviewer: The initial 3 bullet points and the section on the why are effectively the same, with the latter just providing a bit more concrete detail. Perhaps the following is sufficient?
```suggestion
== Why introduce Connections?

Rather than defining connection details inside each Source or Destination, separating them as a first-class citizen provides a host of benefits:

**Reusability**::
A single Connection can be reused across multiple Sources or Destinations.

**Centralized management**::
Update credentials or connection parameters in one place without editing every pipeline.

**Early validation**::
Validate a Connection before it is ever used by a Source or Destination.

**Cleaner configurations**::
Source and Destination definitions focus only on CDC and data-flow logic, not on infrastructure details.

All these benefits make creating and managing pipelines easier, safer, and faster.
```

== Creating a Connection

You can create a Connection directly from the catalog or during the resource creation flow.

When creating a Connection, you define the connection-specific properties required to communicate with the external system (for example, database host, port, authentication details, or sink endpoint configuration).

Once defined, the Connection can be validated independently to ensure it is correctly configured and reachable.

[.centered-image.responsive-image]
++++
<!-- Screenshot placeholder: Connection creation form -->
++++

=== Validating a Connection

A key part of the new Connection workflow is connection validation.

After creating a Connection, you can explicitly validate it to verify that:

* The configuration is complete
* The platform can successfully connect to the target system
* Authentication and network settings are correct

> This helps catch issues early—before a Source or Destination is created or a pipeline is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This helps catch issues early—before a Source or Destination is created or a pipeline is started.
```

[.centered-image.responsive-image]
++++
<!-- Screenshot placeholder: Connection validation result -->
++++

== Using Connections in Sources and Destinations

Once a Connection is created and validated, it becomes available for selection when creating Sources and Destinations.

Instead of entering connection properties again, you simply reference an existing Connection.

> The Source or Destination then uses that Connection at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When defining a Source or Destination, all validated Connection definitions are available in a drop-down for quick access, making pipeline setup and management fast and straightforward.
```

[.centered-image.responsive-image]
====
++++
<img src="/assets/images/2026-01-22-Debezium-platform-connection/connection-selector.gif" style="max-width:100%;" class="responsive-image" alt="Connection selector showing how to select or create a connection when configuring a Source">
++++
====

This allows the same Connection to be shared across:

* Multiple Sources or Destination
* Multiple pipelines

== Updating existing workflows

If you are already familiar with creating Sources and Destinations in the Debezium Platform, the overall workflow remains the same.

The key difference is that connection-related properties are no longer embedded directly in the resource configuration.

> Instead, they are managed through reusable Connections, keeping configurations modular and easier to evolve over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you know how to create Sources and Destinations in Debezium, the workflow is unchanged, and updating to use Connection definitions is quick and painless.

First, create a Connection definition with all the connection properties your existing pipeline uses. After you create and validate the Connection, simply edit the workflow and select the newly defined Connection definition to link it to the pipeline. The pipeline then uses the reusable Connection definition moving forward.
```

== Demo: Connections in action

The following video demonstrates how to:

* Create and validate a Connection
* Reuse the Connection across multiple Sources and Destinations
* Build a pipeline using shared Connections

++++
<div class="responsive-video">
<!-- Video placeholder -->
</div>
++++

== More coming soon!

> Connections are a foundational step toward making the Debezium Platform more modular, maintainable, and scalable.

Reviewer: Connections lay the foundation for making the Debezium Platform more modular, maintainable, and scalable.

[.centered-image.responsive-image]
====
++++
<img src="/assets/images/2026-01-22-Debezium-platform-connection/connection-catalog.gif" style="max-width:100%;" class="responsive-image" alt="Connection catalog">
++++
Connection catalog.
====

When creating a Connection, you define the connection-specific properties required to communicate with the external system (for example, database host, port, authentication details, or sink endpoint configuration).

Once defined, the Connection can be validated independently to ensure it is correctly configured and reachable.

=== Validating a Connection

A key part of the new Connection workflow is connection validation.

[.centered-image.responsive-image]
====
++++
<img src="/assets/images/2026-01-22-Debezium-platform-connection/Connection-creation.gif" style="max-width:100%;" class="responsive-image" alt="Connection validation and creation">
++++
Connection validation and creation.
====

After creating a Connection, you can explicitly validate it to verify that:

* The configuration is complete
* The platform can successfully connect to the target system
* Authentication and network settings are correct

> This helps catch issues early—before a Source or Destination is created or a pipeline is started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This helps catch issues early, before a Source or Destination is created or a pipeline is started.
```

em-dash is a strict sign of AI written text so I would remove it.
